Blessed be God, at the end of the last year I was in very good health, without
any sense of my old pain, but upon taking of cold. I lived in Axe Yard having my
wife, and servant Jane, and no more in family than us three. My wife ... gave
me hopes of her being with child, but on the last day of the year ... [the hope
was belied.] The condition of the State was thus; viz. the Rump, after being
disturbed by my Lord Lambert, was lately returned to sit again. The officers of
the Army all forced to yield. Lawson lies still in the river, and Monk is with
his army in Scotland. Only my Lord Lambert is not yet come into the Parliament,
nor is it expected that he will without being forced to it. The new Common
Council of the City do speak very high; and had sent to Monk their sword-bearer,
to acquaint him with their desires for a free and full Parliament, which is at
present the desires, and the hopes, and expectation of all. Twenty-two of the
old secluded members having been at the House-door the last week to demand
entrance, but it was denied them; and it is believed that [neither] they nor the
people will be satisfied till the House be filled. My own private condition very
handsome, and esteemed rich, but indeed very poor; besides my goods of my house,
and my office, which at present is somewhat uncertain. Mr. Downing master of my
office.

(Lord's Day) This morning (we living lately in the garret,) I rose, put on my
suit with great skirts, having not lately worn any other, clothes but them. Went
to Mr. Gunning’s chapel at Exeter House, where he made a very good sermon upon
these words:&mdash;"That in the fulness of time God sent his Son, made of a
woman,"; showing, that, by "made under the law," is meant his circumcision,
which is solemnized this day. Dined at home in the garret, where my wife dressed
the remains of a turkey, and in the doing of it she burned her hand. I staid at
home all the afternoon, looking over my accounts; then went with my wife to my
father's, and in going observed the great posts which the City have set up at
the Conduit in Fleet-street. Supt at my, father's, where in came Mrs. The
Turner and Madam Morrice, and supt with us. After that my wife and I went home
with them, and so to our own home.
